# Introduction

Beside anything you might think of an Operating System, let us keep it and see an example before everything else.

A carpenter has just opened his store, he likes to make and repair wooden objects. In his store there is a storage room and a working table to build objects on.

[Image of the store without assistance]

When he receives an order, he immediately get all the resources needed and keep the customer by his side to review and make modification while he is working so the customer can be satisfied with the result. With time, he noticed that he couldn't do anything while he is working on a project! A lot of time was wasted he couldn't even schedule another customer's order while he was busy with one.

So he had an idea! Why not hire an assistance? 

[Image of the store with an assistance]

After hiring an assistance, his assistance began helping him by managing orders from customers and scheduling future orders in a queue. Also, he helps getting the needed tools and resources from the storage room to setup the table for the new order. It was a major change and super helpful that an assistance can help and make some usage of the time wasted before.

But, they had another issue! When the carpenter starts working on the new order, he finds some information missing regarding measurements and the order details so he needed to get more information every time he starts a new order until completing it to make sure the product is flawless from the customer perspective.
This was also a waste of time, there was no consistency in the order details and some where missing. So, the assistant had a brilliant idea of why not making a form to be filled with all the information needed by the carpenter so he can focus on only doing what is described and it will be flawless since the customer filled every detail needed!

The carpenter started getting more customers and orders for his reputation of being keen, fast, and reliable.

[Image of customers order getting as an input to the shop and his assistance filling the form while he is working and producing the product as an output]


## Conclusion 
In conclusion, every project will not be perfect from the start, you will begin and start enhancing on the way until it reaches a point where the project is mature.