# Operating System in relation with HW resources
One of the Operating System responsibilities is to manage hardware resources. Hence, in this document we will cover computer hardware resources and their purposes to understand how can the Operating System manage them.

---

## Main Memory 
### Introduction
Main memory is the component that stores temporary data for quick accesses by the CPU.
### purpose
It stores data temporally for quick access by the CPU to process the data.
### Relation to OS
OS manage main memory by the following.
- allocating and deallocating spaces.
- swapping data between Disk and main memory.
- keep track of every memory block and its usage.


---

## CPU
### Introduction
The CPU is the processing unit in the computer it is the component that is responsible to process and execute instruction.
### purpose
Processing data and instructions.
<!-- ### Relation to OS
OS manages the CPU by deciding which process should run currently. -->

---

## Disk
### Introduction
Disks are used to store data permanently, the data will not be lost even if the computer power is turned off.
### purpose
Store data permanently.
### Relation to OS
- Managing files and directories creation, deletion, updating and retrieving.
- Mapping data to secondly storage (Main Memory).






# OS the big picture 
In this document, we would like to explain how computer resources work together to run a program. We figured out that the best approach is to first explain what a process is then we will follow up with how processes get executed and passed between the computer resources.
