# Memory Management
As described earlier, main memory is a collection of cells, each with its unique address. Memory is typically organized in such a way that each memory address corresponds to a single byte. However, data types in programming languages can occupy multiple bytes, depending on their types. Understanding these sizes is crucial for efficient memory management and data manipulation in programming.

## Data Types
Data types in programming languages specifies how much space is needed to store a value. 

- **Char**: 1 byte
- **Short**: 2 bytes
- **Int**: 4 bytes
- **Long**: 4 bytes or 8 bytes
- **Float**: 4 bytes
- **Double**: 8 bytes
- **Pointer**: Varies based on architecture—4 bytes on 32-bit systems and 8 bytes on 64-bit systems

> **Note**: These sizes do not apply to all architectures.


We need to understand these types to better utilize memory and understand its behavior in certain cases.

Lets take an example of a variable in c. 

```c
main(){
    int num = 10;
    char ch = 'M';
    return 0;
}
```

what we did here is creating two variables that are going to be stored in memory specifically in the stack segment since they are a local variable for the main function. 
The first variable will reserve 4 bytes to store the value `10` and the second will use 1 byte to store the value `M` in memory. 

**[An image of the memory storing num and ch]**


## The Class
You may know what a class is, but we will walkthrough the concept from the memory perspective. 
A class is a way to construct a new type, you can determine the structure of your type by combining the types defined in the language. 


<!-- The concept of class 
The concept of struct 
The concept of memory alignment by ordering data types in the class or struct -->





---






Here, we will cover how to manage memory through programming. 


1. What does a class do? + The purpose of struct? both section the block of memory to store data. for example std = [int id, string name, int age ].
2. What is the purpose of data types? each type has a size. + offset example to understand how computers access specific data in an array or object. 
3. Concept of pointers? what are pointers and how to access elements in memory addresses? create an array and use the offset to access elements. + explain the reason that we use data type for pointers to understand the offset we will use when we read the value they store.
4. The concept of malloc & free?
5. What happens if we call a function? stack frame explanation.
6. Why is calling a function in a loop is not recommended? the stack frame gets destroyed and created with each iteration.
