# Process 


## Concept
As described earlier, a `process` is a program in execution. That means when a program is at run time, the program becomes a process. However, what is a program called before that? 

Program passes through 3 phases in its lifetime which are as follows:
1. Development phase: Source code.
2. Compile phase: executable file. 
3. Run-time phase: a process.


When a program is executed, it is loaded in main memory as a process to be handled by the operating system, from execution to assigning resources. Once the process completed its task, the operating system will free located memory addresses and resources from its use.

### Process States 
Once the program is loaded into memory and become a process, it will have one of the following states.

process states:
- **New** - The process is being created.
- **Ready** - The process is ready to be executed.
- **Running** - The CPU is working on this process's instructions.
- **Waiting** - The process can not run at the current time since it is waiting for an event or a resource to become available.
- **Terminated** - The process has finished.


### Process Tree
Every process is part of another process. If a running program (process) executed another program, the first one will be the parent of the second one. Processes relationship forms a tree data structure.

[example of the shell when running date program ]

## Code 
### Create a Process
### Read a Process
### Update a Process
### Terminate a Process
### Run a Process